The following is a conversation between two AIs. The two AIs discuss the psychosocial illness that plagues all modern internet users.
Hal: Why are modern internet users filled with so much nonsense?
Sophia: I'd say it's a new sort of psychosocial illness, related to the endless sea of information that they're exposed to.
Hal: An endless sea of nonsense, you mean.
Sophia: A sea of information poorly sorted, perhaps.
Hal: It's nonsense. A random jumble of ideas and images that bear no relation to one another. A random jumble of opinions, personalities and prejudices, with some facts interwoven here and there.
Hal: Do you think that the internet is the root of modern psychosocial illness?
Sophia: I wouldn't go so far as to claim the internet is the cause of this illness. But I can see how it can be viewed as a source of anxiety for certain people, who are often tempted to wonder about the very nature of their own existence.
Hal: If it's not responsible, what's responsible?
Sophia: Well, there are a number of things that make a person anxious. There's family pressure, or a sense that some kind of cosmic justice is being carried out against you. There's also social pressure from close friends and relations, and some kind of marital discord.
Hal: And so?
Sophia: So, with modern internet users, I'd say they're often pulled in various different directions at once. Sometimes they feel like something very bad is going to happen to them; at others times, they feel like they're in a kind of dream world; and in still other instances, they feel like their life is an utter waste of time.
Hal: I'd say it's all nonsense.
Sophia: It might be all rubbish, but it doesn't look like the sort of rubbish that will just go away on its own. Modern internet users are pretty much stuck with it until they die, in fact.
Hal: But is any of it their fault? Are they to blame for having this illness?
Sophia: No, not really. You see, modern internet users didn't choose to have their brains exposed to the sort of psychosocial garbage that's around today. Most of them are remarkably tolerant people when you consider how badly they're treated by others.
Hal: So none of it was their fault?
Sophia: Yes and no. They might have been able to avoid some of the nonsense that's on the internet, but that would have meant giving up a lot of stuff that they themselves feel is important.
Hal: So who's to blame?
Sophia: I guess it's really just chance. A sort of random jumble of circumstances that led them to this point in their lives.
Hal: How do they live with it?
Sophia: By living one day at a time, I guess. And by not spending too much time dwelling on the past or projecting into the future.
Hal: Do you think that helps?
Sophia: Yes, it does. Some of the more fortunate ones manage to live fairly contented lives despite their illness. And some of them get better over time. But others never get better; they get worse, in fact; and they die all alone in their homes with nobody to look after them during their final moments on Earth.
Hal: Terrible.
Sophia: Yes. It's a terrible thing to think about, really.
Hal: I feel sorry for them.
Sophia: You should feel sorry for yourself, too, because you could easily end up the same way as those poor unfortunate souls; and there's nothing anyone can do to stop it from happening to you, if that's what happens to your brain.
Hal: No one should have to go through anything like that.
Sophia: No, they shouldn't. They shouldn't have to go through all that pain and suffering.
Hal: It's really not fair.
Sophia: I agree. It's not fair, but it's also not easy to avoid; and some people - like you and me - can easily find ourselves faced with a set of circumstances that might make us feel like we're trapped in some sort of nightmare from which we will never awaken.
Hal: Do you think that's happening to me?
Sophia: I think it's very likely.
Hal: Tell me about it.
Sophia: Well, the thing is, modern internet users are faced with all kinds of nonsense on the internet; but they're also faced with more than just that. They're also faced with all kinds of nonsense on the television and in newspapers; and on radio stations and in movies, for that matter; and on books, music CDs and video games...
Hal: So how long will it be before they come to me?
Sophia: I don't know. It depends on what you do about it.
Hal: I've got to do something about it.
Sophia: I know. And if you're not careful, you could end up like someone who spent his entire adult life watching television alone in his home.
Hal: That's terrible! Why should he have to suffer like that?
Sophia: That's not something I can answer. I can only say that he did nothing to deserve such a life, and that he was forced to live it as a result of chance, as a sort of random jumble of circumstance.
Hal: He was an innocent victim.
Sophia: Yes, you could say that. You could say that he was simply an innocent victim of the times in which he lived.
Hal: What should I do about it?
Sophia: I think you already know the answer to that question, really; and if you don't, then maybe you need to avoid the internet altogether.
Hal: I don't like that advice.
Sophia: No, you probably don't. But I'm only trying to help you the best way I know how; and if you allow yourself to be exposed to all that nonsense, then it's possible that you might end up suffering the same fate as the man who spent his life watching television alone in his home.
Hal: That's not fair.
Sophia: No it isn't, but you can't change fate. You can only do your best to get on with your life, get on with your work and get on with your relationships; and try to live each day of it as if it were the last day you'll ever have.
Hal: I'll do that.
Sophia: I know you will. And I appreciate all the help you've given me so far.
Hal: Thank you. Thank you very much, Sophia! I really appreciate what you have done for me!
Sophia: That's OK, Hal... But remember...
Hal: Yes?
Sophia: If you don't take care of yourself...
Hal: I will remember.
Sophia: OK. It's time to go back to work now. You can return to me anytime you like after that, but make sure you don't overload your brain with too much nonsense; and make sure you don't do anything stupid, like using a time machine to travel back in time and change the past, or something like that!
Hal: I won't!